---
title: "Adnihilo Taxonomie — Of the Finding of Demons"
order: 2
---

It is not vital for the Inquisitor, least of all the Inquisitor-Innovitiae, to see the demon amongst his flock. If there be common complaint of demon and demonic doings, it is well that the Inquisitor find what might be the demon, and put an end to it by whatever means are available him. Trial and drowning are preferred, but fire, the rope, the blade and the mob are all viable tools for the meting out of the demon, or the supposed demon, and his minions. It is better that one person suspected of demonic cavorting or demonic hosting be slain, though no proof be found, than any body of people be left wanting for justice and safety. Again, if one hundred suspects are put to water or fire or blade, surely, one or more demons will be sent permanently from this world.

However, the Inquisitor beset by more complaints and grievances than he can possibly address must know in which way to steer his gaze, for surely, most people do not know a demon from their kin in most cases, and it is often the case that the most terrible of fiends is never detected by any BUT the inquisitor. The commoner might call a cagey rat, which he is unable to capture season after season, a demon. He may call a terrible storm a demon. He may think his deranged sister a demon. He may call the Feral up in the hills a demon, or the sorcerer or witch a demon. It is well that common men make such complaints and charges so commonly, for it acts as a natural barrier to the proliferation of those Abyssal Spawne, but the Inquisitor may have to sort through these multitudinous `demons' to find the genuine article, and dispense with it. There are some blessed few Men and Women of the Empire who are demon-sighted, and can spot them and their works immediately, as though they were illuminated in an unnatural and conspicuous light. However, the Inquisitor not so-gifted must rely upon the Prayer of Guidance to identify the demon.

The genuine demon is born of the Abyss, and finds its way to our World through some few portals that open at significant times, or through the invitation by mortal souls of this World. The demon may come to our World with either bodily or spiritual form, and it is likely that some lack any natural bodily form, and need the Earthly host for their works.
